when I say day 102 does it bring back
any memories yeah it's the only YouTube
video that I didn't release my name is
Russ Cook and I'm attempting to become
the first person ever to run the entire
length of Africa it was probably the
hardest part of my whole life what
happened so I'm going down this dirt
path and two blocks on a motor bike P I
knew that on the bik for longer than
half an hour it's bad news ended up
spending 7 hours on my M bike going into
the jungle I was getting kidnapped your
partner told us that thought you had
died I mean I thought I was going to die
as well were you thinking about people
back
home Russ I don't think many people know
that you did all this stuff before
Africa 22 years old you become the first
person to run from Asia to London you
bued yourself alive for 7 days you
pulled the car as well which is pretty
crazy what were you looking for that's
one hell of a question man things had
got pretty bad I wasn't speaking to my
family I was drinking and gambling I
would wake up throughout the week and
just burs into tears crying you had dark
thoughts yeah but ultimately you know no
one was going to come and save me it
just had to be me and I thought Africa
would be the best adventure ever but May
30 you start pissing blood I knew it was
bad it' probably end you get robbed at
gunpoint they got passports money and
then a falling out amongst the team
you've not talked about this in detail
either I just blew up shout everyone
throwing chairs what happened well
congratulations diio gang we've made
some progress 63% of you that listen to
this podcast regularly don't subscribe
which is down from
69% our goal is 50% so if you've ever
liked any of the videos we've posted if
you like this channel can you do me a
quick favor and hit the Subscribe button
it helps this channel more than you know
and the bigger the channel gets as
you've seen the bigger the guests get
thank you and enjoy this episode
[Music]
Russ you know you're someone that has
achieved and has pursued really
anomalous Feats in their life Feats that
most of us as Muggles would never have
the
insanity to take on so I was I was so
curious to understand from your
perspective what are The Dominoes that
fell in your life that led you to be the
guy that sits here that everyone around
the country and around the world is
perplexed and astonished and inspired by
where does it
start that's one hell of a question man
uh I think really I had quite a normal
upbringing and maybe that's like the
basis
for why I ended up doing all this kind
of stuff
um yeah like Dad my early memories of
like my dad were he was very hardworking
man he cut metal for a living and I
didn't really see that much of him when
I was young he would be out working 304
hours a day coming home metal dust all
over him mom would look after me and my
brothers and um I think he kind of
instilled
the like that hardworking mentality in
me
and you know a lot of the a lot of the
dominoes fell from that really and what
was your mom like when you were growing
up my mom was very what I always
remember about my mom she really
enforced it in us to be
polite that was like a big thing for her
so always like yes yes please thank you
uh whenever we'd go around to people's
houses she was like make sure that we
behaved well and all this kind of stuff
and uh you like her her dad is like
military man so 18 to 65 always RAF like
very well respected um I think she got
that from him and that's what she passed
down to us but she was very caring
she her her whole life was her kids
really so yeah like a lot of respect for
my mom the absence of your father you
said a second ago that because he was
quite absent your mother kind of carried
the responsibility of raising the kids
herself do you reflect on that and as
you look back in your
life understand how his absence had an
impact on you because before before this
conversation to I got to speak to my
team and I got to speak to lots of
people around you as you know cuz I'm
sure they're all yeah little snitches so
we spoke to your girlfriend we spoke to
your dad yeah um spoke to your team
spoke to everyone around you privately
um and got all of their take sort of
perspectives and stuff and it appeared
from those conversations that the early
sort of absence of your father had a
pretty big impact on shaping you as an
individual yeah I mean I guess
I think my I now I'm now I'm older I
just look at it like my dad was doing
everything that he could to provide for
his family you know I think he took that
responsibility really
seriously
um
and yeah I mean it's hard to hard to
really contemplate how that affected me
but the the this the few things I did
see of my daddy was just always he ran a
marathan when I was a kid and I remember
that being like a big you know he would
always talk about willpower and he
didn't say much but like he was more of
a man of he did things rather than spoke
about them so he'd go out and work
really hard or he'd go and run a
marathon and I'd see these things
happening you know he'd come home from
work and he'd be knackered and he'd be
on the sofa
and like he kind of just that was the
way he led you know it's a generational
thing in many respects isn't it because
my my dad I feel like is very much the
same I don't think we had many deep
conversations at all but he he led by
example in the sense that he worked hard
loved his family yeah um that Marathon
your dad ran did he do things like that
a lot um not really he was he was
working pretty much all the time so he
do he he ran two marathons one when he
was 30 one when he was 40 but he used to
take me out on runs when I was quite
young and you know he wouldn't really
say anything but it was more just me
seeing it that I think was important for
me that's how he operated you know what
about affection
uh yeah no my
dad's my dad or my mom aren't very
affectionate people I don't think
I've don't think I've ever seen them
like even kiss maybe maybe once or twice
when I was young but like you know the I
love using I love using stuff like this
wasn't words that got thrown around in
our
family not that they didn't me not that
they didn't mean it I just think that
like we we our family is a bit stiff
like that
not all families have the tools yeah do
you know what I mean they just maybe
they didn't get them from their parents
no that's I think that's exactly it you
know and I think when as I've got older
and I've understood like where they've
come from and their parents and their
upbringings and it's like makes sense
but it didn't make sense didn't make
sense at the time it's hard to like when
you're young it's I find it really hard
to make sense a lot of things I was one
of them like had a lot of
questions hard to find the answers but I
kept digging what kind of questions did
you have I guess it was more stuff like
I I was finding it hard to find my way
in the world and especially when I got
to like teenage years and I'd be like
how do I do this how do I you know how
do I build a career how do I make money
how do I do all of these things how do I
navigate friendships and relationships
and all these kind of complex how do I
find meaning in my life not that I was
directly asking those questions but they
the kind of things I'm proding out of
that age and I think
you know from my parents it was it was
quite hard to find those answers just
because I think they will struggled with
communicating like that you know when
you're 13 14 years
old do you think you're different from
your peers do you feel like you're
different in any way or isolated in any
way from other people I looked at people
and I was like like teachers for example
or any kind of authority figures in my
life and if if I sense that they weren't
very happy in their lives they were a
bit miserable I would kind of discard a
lot of what they were trying to tell me
they I found a lot at that age had a lot
of people trying to tell me what to do
or you know do this do that behave like
this and I was like if I do what you say
then I'm going to end up like you and I
don't I don't want that so I'm doing my
own thing and I think that kind of
started a journey of trying to find my
own answers and stumbling cross a lot of
different things to try and find that do
you think you mom and dad were
happy
no I kind of feel bad for I want to do
them a service when I'm talking about
them because I do respect them a lot now
especially I'm old now I'm older and I
understand things more but I don't think
at the time I think they've had their
struggles like a lot of us have our
struggles you know
MH yeah I asked the question because I
even look at my own life and I think
whatever the source of my parents and
happiness was I think as kids we
sometimes s um our relationship whatever
with whatever is making our parents
unhappy often has a big impact on us and
I you know I sit here a lot with
Comedians and stuff and I remember Jimmy
car I think it was Jimmy car said to me
he goes listen when you sit down with a
comedian Steve you don't need to ask the
comedian if they're depressed you need
to ask them which one of their parents
were depressed because the reason for
their behavior will be at some level a
desire to please or make one of their
parents smile for a change or you know
what I mean and and I wondered that with
with your early upbringing cuz cuz you
know I got to speak to your family and I
got to speak to people around you and
the picture that was emerging was that
home wasn't the happiest place and it
wasn't the most loving connected cuddly
perfect Rosy smiley yeah you know
idyllic environment to say the least no
yeah I'd agree I'd agree with that
and yeah yeah I mean I think it wasn't
for the lack of trying yeah but it it's
like you said they didn't have the tools
and you know ultimately that is what
kind of pushed pushed me to go and try
and find my own things which worked out
for the best and when you say pushed you
to go find your own things um 16 17
years old you move
out
why well
things things had got quite bad with
with family stuff I
was I was a a piece of [__] to be honest
with you um very rebellious very
disrespectful didn't listen to anything
that they were
saying and very intent on doing my own
thing and I think that kind of took a
big toll on everyone in the family
because I would you know I was stressing
everyone out why what were you looking
for I think like deep down I was just
like looking for something more in my
life I was looking at
what you know the life that the adults
around me were living and I was like I
don't I don't want that I I I want I
want more than that I want to go and see
I want to go and live you know
and you know that's kind of
when you know you've got a kid that's 16
hasn't done anything with his life and
he's just kind of disrespecting you
ignoring everything you're saying and
doing his own thing coming home whenever
kids don't kids aren't born like that
though yeah do you know what I
mean they're not born acting out and
disrespecting people so that's why I'm
asking about the cause of it cuz you
know sometimes when you hear kids doing
that kind of thing you kind of think
they're trying to they're acting out to
try and get some attention and then
they're kind of like rebelling from you
know Authority because they feel I don't
know disconnected in some way or
whatever I think that's maybe it you
know like it's probably part of it I'm
not I'm not exactly sure why um but
that's that's kind of what happened and
I think I was I had a lot of energy a
lot of motivation viciously ambitious
but didn't really know how to apply it
where to apply it to get what I
wanted and I was looking around me for I
think I was looking around searching for
the guidance that that would help me but
I wasn't really finding it so I was just
trying to make I was just basically
discarding things that I thought weren't
important or opinions that weren't
important that weren't going to get me
where I wanted and I was just looking
for looking for it and yeah that's kind
of how things started unraveling and
ended up moving
out
and that that induced a quite a tasty
few years in itself when you say moved
out do you mean like organized the
removal van and had an apartment you
were moving into or what was the day
like when you moved out uh it was quite
a messy it was quite messy for a couple
of years in there like I remember my
parents sent me up to my granddad in
Scotland one summer when I was like 15
and this was kind of the start of when
things were going quite bad um your
parents were doing okay my parents were
doing okay okay yeah but then so then
and then I remember one night they moved
all my stuff to my other granddad's
house and changed the lock on the
door and they were like you're not
coming back and I kick the door
in and bow in so so it was kind of
happening for a while and then it got to
the point where I remember my mom being
like yeah you need to go and I was like
cool it wasn't like a out the door with
tail between my legs or anything it was
I don't need you anyway sit that like at
what age 15 that was about 17 okay yeah
and then um I organized a flat was the
cheapest flat I could rent in woring and
I was still I was at college so I was
working about four or five part-time
jobs just like cleaning I was up on my
bike going to weit tros cleaning toilets
in the morning before college and then
finished that and I went into sales at
first you know when they change the
locks on the door and tell you that you
can't come back home yeah if I asked
them at the time why they had done that
what do you think they would have said
they would have said like this guy needs
humbling he's he's he doesn't know
anything about the world he's very
arrogant very disrespectful and then in
hindsight and totally right yeah totally
right but you you must have empathy for
that kid because you know you look back
as an adult you can understand the
complex arrange of emotions yeah yeah
yeah yeah cuz there's no kids aren't
like they're not it born to be like
Terrors like that yeah uh I get it from
I think now I'm older I just get it from
both sides like it it's really difficult
it was really difficult for them to
manage that like complex kind of
personality and it was also really hard
for me to
Express or communicate my in a way that
was I was going to get myself listened
to I wasn't doing that I was just
like totally trying to run everyone over
you know you wanted to be heard yeah I
think
so what does that
mean I guess I just wanted someone to
like understand
and I just I think I just wanted the
guidance like of someone I wanted
guidance but from
someone
that I someone that I looked at and was
like I want what they've got you know or
like they've done life in a way that I
want to do life and they could teach me
the lessons but I didn't I was
struggling to kind of find that at that
age it reminds me of my conversation
with Ashley Walters and from Top booy
yeah said pretty much the exact same
thing his father wasn't around and so he
was looking for a role model or guidance
answers and he couldn't find it so he
ends up joining these gangs and that
spirals somewhere else and it's so
interesting that you know a young a
young man at your age that age sort of
you know 14 15 16 17 if they don't have
someone there to model themselves on
they can descend into different forms of
chaos yeah like so much
energy um which is in a lot of ways I
think a positive thing but just without
those guidelines to
to actually get you somewhere it just
kind of becomes chaos when you moved out
then so you moved out sort of 16 17
years old how was your relationship with
your parents from there terrible really
yeah didn't speak to them for a long
time uh even up until I would say up
until probably the last
year is is couple of years it's been
pretty yeah but um you're 27 now yeah
we're talking about when you were 17
yeah yeah well it's it there was there's
moments in where it's got better and
then got worse and got
better but for for a while it's yeah it
was
tough when you you know at 17 years old
they change the locks you move
out I'm sure your response was hardest
geizer cuz it always is right like you
said it's just [__] it I don't care I'll
figure it out yeah but at some deeper
level you're I think we're all
bullshitting ourselves El to if we say
that it doesn't have an impact cuz I can
relate I remember the call to my mom at
18 and telling how I was leaving
University and I remember what she said
to me I can't repeat what she said
because it's so vicious really yeah yeah
it's like you it's so it's so vicious
one of the things she said to me but it
was hard es Geer exterior yeah yeah yeah
and then at some deeper level on certain
days oh yeah you know set catch me the
day 100% man like and I think the
hardest Gees are kind of approach like
that aggressive approach to it is just
like a way of coping with it but every
now and again you know like the emotions
would roll out and yeah I'm not denying
that for a second I remember seeing I
moved out and then I think I saw my dad
maybe I can't remember how long after it
was a good few months maybe a year or so
and it just made me cry just seeing him
so like the emotions were always
there but to kind of get through it it
was like right you know [__] everyone
why did you cry when you saw
him just because I think like
there's always a part of me that
understands that my parent there is no
there's no one else in the world that
loves me like my parents do and like no
matter what they do or like how B badly
I felt I'd been wronged or which I
wasn't really they were just trying
their best I always knew that you know
whatever happens these these are the two
people actually care about me the most
and I think that just makes like when
things aren't going well that makes you
emotional CU it's like these are the
people I'm supposed to be closest with
and things real bad right now so you're
so right I think so many people are
probably in that situation right now
where they they love that person but
they don't know how to build the bridge
both people yeah and it takes two to
build the bridge so it really does they
can't build it I can't build it so we
love each other but we're [__] at War
yeah or I think like a big part of that
for me in building that bridge was
actually my girlfriend when I was away
cuz she she went over and she went
around the house and spoke to them loads
and she's cuz even before I left like I
went around to see both my parents
before I left it was the first time I
see them in
like maybe like a year and a half two
years really you Haden seen your parents
in years before I left for Africa we'd
spoken me and my girlfriend spoken a lot
about these kind of things and how like
important we want family to be and
she I I felt like at a loss making that
that step I just didn't really know how
to do it what to say blah blah blah but
she kind of over this year has really
like done a lot in that sense people
might think this is sexist but I do
think women have more tools 100% 100% my
girlfriend's the same if my girlfriend
me and my mom sometimes don't speak for
PR long periods of time and my
girlfriend like insists upon it yeah and
like dragged me down to Plymouth and was
like we're going to see her yeah oh mate
I couldn't agree more especially with me
and my girlfriend's Dynamic anyway like
that's really she's I look at her like a
like a wizard in that sense I'm like I
don't know what I'm doing but
she she's got that under control which
is amazing so you're 17 years old you've
moved out you're on your own what's the
plan yeah wow um yeah so I remember I
had this flat in worin it was the
cheapest flat available on right move
450 quid a month which is more than I
could afford but I was like right let's
do
it um was working a bunch of different
jobs tring of fish
College kind of scraped through and then
I um I actually was
watching this this is so cringe it's
funny I was like one of them Lads that
watched Wolf of Wall Street and was like
this is it for me do you know what I
mean I'm this is the game I'm going to
I'm going to become a millionaire
millionaire doing sales stuff so went
and got a few sales
jobs
um made some actually not bad money for
for my age but really didn't enjoy it
and you know ended up with that kind of
lack of guidance I ended up just doing
the things that felt to me like the most
fun or the most like they would bring in
my naivity they would bring me the most
meaningful experiences at the time which
ended up being going out a lot with the
boys and drinking and uh gambling and
that's kind of what my life was for the
next kind of two two three years after
that were you were you addicted to
gambling um cuz I was reading through
your story and speaking to some of your
friends and they told me that there was
some instances where you you basically
lost everything you had and had to
borrow money off your misses at the time
yeah oh M it was it's embarrassing to
even talk about like I
remember you know I didn't have much
money but I'd done one night on roulette
i' done about two I think it was over
two grand on online roulette just
sitting there on my phone late at night
just tapping away and that was kind of
everything I had at the time and plus
the overdraft plus all the rest of it
and I had to I was too embarrassed to
say anything so I told my M like I think
I just made up some [__] lies about
what this XY Z and said I need to borrow
money for rent and stuff this month
there was a moment there where I was
like okay this really need stopping I
just went on every single gambling
website I could find and did the self
ban
thing never gambled since
and the alcohol yeah I mean I think the
alcohol stuff was just like binge
drinking culture I wouldn't say like I
was alcoholic or anything like this that
was just the only way I could really the
only thing I look forward to I'd I'd
hate my job so I'd hate work all
throughout the week but I'd be like all
right Saturday with the boys or Saturday
drinking this whatever going out here
was like the thing that I look forward
to that was the only thing I was really
living for was there part of you
throughout that period of your life when
when you're working in sales you're
gambling too much you're drinking too
much I heard you were overweight at the
time as well was there a part of you
that sort of a voice inside your head
that was saying like come on Russ like
this isn't it yeah definitely um I was
so miserable man so so miserable at that
time really struggled I remember I would
like wake up throughout the week just
like
crying just just so
miserable um
yeah you'd wake up through the week crme
just like I'd wake up like supposed to
go to work just be I just be like so
upset be like the worst so miserable
couldn't just
fathom I was like why is why is life
this why does it suck this much you know
like I really had
no felt like I was kind of
Trapped lack of connection I think was a
big part of that
you had people around you though but you
just weren connected not I didn't I mean
I had like a few few of my boys but I I
wasn't speak to my family all at this
time
um well I guess I was just doing a lot
of things that would make you miserable
like I was I had no control over my
finances cuz I was pissing away
everything I earned on roulette I was
the only things I look forward to was
going out and getting pissed which I
could which would make me me me feel
that [__] as well and then I would go to
work and hate it working every day so
like doesn't take a genius to work out
that's going to be a prettyful existence
you know and you didn't have family
around you didn't have yeah didn't have
like many deep
connections so how old were you at that
point in your life so that would be like
18 19 17 18 19 20 maybe just about so if
you had to give me a a word to summarize
your sort of mental health throughout
that period what would you how would you
describe your mental health
toilet yeah bad pretty bad was there a
worst day that you can
recall
um yeah I mean I remember like I do
remember just
if you don't want to talk about it yeah
you you you go your own pace tell me
what you're comfortable talking
about I mean I
remember
days like I said I'd wake up crying
speak to my boss I remember even one day
with my boss speaking until on the phone
just bursting is
crying
and I think what was hard is that I
didn't understand anything I didn't
understand why you know what I mean I
didn't have the tools to really make any
sense of of the situation cuz you know
now I'm seven eight nine years older I
can look back and go yeah well it's what
happens when you gamble loads and you
piss all your money away and you drink
loads and you don't have anything in
your life that's going to bring you any
meaning or fulfillment it's obvious but
at the time I didn't know that so so
that kind of sense of helplessness was a
really big weight on me and it just felt
like I was never going to be able to
shift it I think that was the the most
difficult thing I was like I don't know
how I'm going to get out of this you had
dark thoughts yeah the most dark
thoughts pretty yeah pretty
much that
season of your life I've heard you kind
of describe it as a rock bottom
moment and it's interesting because
there's so many people that are
somewhere along that Journey where
they're struggling they've they've got
that sense of helplessness that you've
described and they're searching for
answers and I think in some respects
thinking about some people I've spoken
to
recently they they've kind of given up
believing that they can solve this
because
it's gone on for too long yeah
and as you said they don't even know
what's causing it they just feel it they
feel it intensely I've got a couple of
friends that are really going through
that at the
moment and I wonder I always wonder to
myself
like how does someone get from that
moment their like personal Rock Bottom
what does it take to get them starting
the climb cuz that's why I that's why
I'm asking these questions I see it in
your story I see you going further and
further and further and further and
further and further down yeah reaching
this Rock Bottom moment and then in that
Rock Bottom moment you have some of the
I think the darkest thoughts anyone can
have and then something causes you
to make a decision yeah I think there's
a few different things that went into
that Melting
Pot um I think actually a massive thing
was like things like listening to
podcasts I started I remember listening
to like Joe Rogan a lot back in the day
and um
like I remember the Jordan Peterson
there was a Jordan Peterson episode age
ago and like a classic thing but that
really kind of hit me and that's what I
like I love listening to him now and I
know he's a bit controversial these days
and people have XY Z say about him but
for me like just having that was like
my uh guidance in a lot of ways and I
think so blessed to have been born in
this generation where the guidance can
come through all of these online
resources whereas for you know like 20
30 years ago maybe that would never have
come for me and maybe 20 years later I'd
still be in the same spot so like
incredibly grateful for that but then
can I ask a question on that in that
moment when you're 19 years old and
you're searching for do your parents
know what you're going through no I
don't think so do you think today they
know what you you were going through in
that probably
not no probably
not I I I I reckon like I don't know I
reckon my mom's probably thought about
it to be fair
I don't know they don't know the ins and
outs what are the ins and outs that they
don't know well just like the day today
you know and I
and I I I I get I'm quite
like I keep a lot of things to myself a
lot of the time
anyway so like no one really
know there's a real cost to that is
there there is yeah I guess there is
this there you know these things I
always think with these things keeping
them to yourself doesn't mean that they
stay inside it means they express
themselves in other ways yeah
smart I sit with a lot of people so i' I
come to learn about myself but I I've
come to one of the things I've
definitely come to learn is that keeping
it in doesn't actually keep it in it
just comes out in other ways it makes it
like a pressure chamber and then you get
your little escapes yeah someone will
say something you can [__]
up yeah well some people expresses
themselves in pornography addictions or
gambling addictions they're trying to
find other ways to ease the burden of
having to hold on to that all that stuff
run in length of
Africa um so they they had no idea
no if you could go back and have a word
with him when he's woke woke up on that
morning when you're at your your rock
bottom and he's crying and he doesn't
want to go to work and he's thinking
about dark you know dark
thoughts if you could go back and just
have a telephone conversation with him
now what would you what would you say to
him oh
I I guess I do I do have
empy for that guy I think the
thing the thing that I needed to hear
which was the most which actually got me
forc me into action was
like I need to take responsibility for
my situation here so like that version
of me at 19
1819 was very much one that looked at my
outside world and blamed everyone else
for my problems like oh it's cuz my
parents did this or my boss did this and
all of these other things
and I didn't need anyone else to come in
and say oh it's not your fault blah blah
blah blah blah I needed someone to go
that's the [__] world mate get used
like do something about it or don't up
to
you so that's probably the message that
I would
give maybe I'd deliver it in a nice
little empathetic way but
timately you know no one was going to
come and save me it just had to be
me and you talk about this um I was
reading different sort of seasons of
your life and there's this one moment
where you're in a nightclub and it seems
like you have a bit of I don't know
whether you on something or you
something seems like you had a little
bit of a dance Flor Epiphany moment at
at 2 3 a.m. in the morning
yeah so I
think it it had been leading up to this
because I would I've been I've been
finding life really difficult for a
while and I was doing all these
different things trying to find
something that I could put my energy
into that would give me something
positive in return
and yeah I remember being in the arch in
Brighton and just being like I need I I
I need to sort my life out it like what
am I doing Prof for one of them like
mirror bit pissed look in the mirror
moment going [__] hell and then ran
home about 11 12 miles took me ages I
was so fit sorry you ran home from the
nightclub ran home from the nightclub
why I I don't know really it was a bit
Forest Gumpy in the way it was just like
I just felt like running kind of Vibes
and then at what time sorry like 3:00
a.m. 2: 3 a.m. something like this you
ran 12 miles at 3:00 a.m. yeah it took
me ages drunk yeah yeah I was totally
off it yeah
um sleeping on the side of the road yeah
took a little power nap in shm
pavement but yeah I mean so I ran that
Mar I ran that little bit and then a
mate of mine that I'd been mates with
for a long time had just started getting
into running properly and he signed up
for a half Mar and he said to me like
come and run it like let's do it I'll
train with you blah blah blah and I
think that was the moment where I was
like oh this might be something that I
can do like I'm out of ideas here you
know I need something so I literally
just on a win was like fine let's do it
signed up then he took me out
training um we did the half marathon
then a few weeks later we signed up did
the full
marathon and that
process was like a huge relief for me it
just m it for the it made me really like
it hammered in the sense that if I do
something positive
it will pay itself back to me you know
like that accountability of like go and
do something good here we go and you can
see the improvements coming week by week
by week and it in I think that's why I
love running so much like because that's
it in its simplest form it's like you go
out run it's really [__] and but then
you keep going you keep going and now a
month later you can run a half marathon
or two months later you can now run a
marathon and it was that process of
going from someone that I like I
couldn't even run around the block and
then I could run a marathon and I was
like [__] this is this I've got
something here like this is how we
progress that's really the word is it
progress that feeling of progress like
you you'd learn because that becomes a
matter for for life like I set out to do
something and I got better at it I
progressed yeah and I accomplished
something yeah that's a that's a pretty
strong transferable idea for the rest of
your like for everyone's life to learn
that l that's kind of what happened for
me I I managed to like save up some
money off the back of run ran these
marathons and then it like stopped
drinking as much St I wasn't gambling
anymore and saved up a bit of money for
the first time and then a few months
later I decided right just been off all
these cleaning jobs I'm going to go and
travel the world with my few grand that
I'd managed to save up and where did you
go around the world traveling did a bit
in Europe then went over to Africa got
to Kenya mhm did did some I was really
into my run at this point so I was
training really hard every day was like
my living and breathing it went to the
training camp C this Village called it
which is like home to some of the best
longdistance Runners ever uh Kip choi's
from there all this kind of stuff just
trained with them got my ass whipped up
pretty good and
that just I met an Italian guy who'd
been cycling around the world for six
years Super inspired by a story how he
was living what he was
doing and decided like I wanted I want
to do I want to try and do something
like that and I was I was pretty good at
running by now so then I first kind of
conceived the idea of running from
Istanbul to London and that was the next
I was like right that's what we're going
for I don't think many people know that
you did all this stuff before Africa no
I don't think so yeah I don't think they
do I don't think people I was speaking
to my mates I was like brother do you
know he he like ran he was the first
person to run from Asia to London and
people like no yeah you just know that
he ran Africa and then all these other
things you did beforehand but 22 years
old you become the first person to run
from Asia to London because you ran from
Istanbul to London um you completed 71
marathons in 66 days through 11
countries and you had no team with you
yeah you basically just did it on your
by yourself and your phone was dying and
all that stuff yeah when you told your
family and other people that you were
going to run from Asia to London at 22
years old what was their
response because that would be the first
big most of them were like yeah you like
you're going to you're going to die or
like that's not going to happen I
remember pretty much everyone being like
that I could probably count on one hand
the amount of people actually thought I
was going to do that what did your
parents
think can't actually remember I don't
know if I was speaking to them very much
at this time oh really
yeah I remember my little brother was
the only one was like yeah he's the only
one I remember being like yeah he's de
he's going to do it what was that like
you know cuz you're on your own it's
different to the Africa run but this
time you're on your own for that whole
that whole journey across a Asia to
Europe yeah what's what's that like it
was an amazing adventure man it really
was it was it was tough though like
really tough being by myself the whole
time I would literally run a marathon at
a little bag with a hammock and
toothbrush toothpaste phone I just find
a couple of trees at the end of the day
sling the hammer cup and go again the
next day so yeah did you not need like
friends or
something like why why I think
the that a lot of people said this to me
at the start they like what were you
going to need this you're going to need
that like yeah but why actually why why
can't you just sleep in a hammock every
day and then go run out
Marathon did you speak were you speaking
to any any bitty back home around that
time don't
really you must look at that objectively
and go that is not normal
behavior and then and then from that I
ask I go so what is it that's abnormal
about you because you're performing
unnormal Behavior it's super inspiring
but it's not normal it's not
typical that's a good question man I'm
not really
sure yeah it wasn't
normal yeah I guess it definitely wasn't
normal I think I love that you're just
figuring that out
now
um I think you know I met this I met
this Italian guy and he'd been cycling
around the world for six years and he
showed me his setup he had nothing on
him really he had like he had basically
nothing but he just had a coffee kale
that was the only thing cared
about so meeting these kind of people
just made me realize like what is normal
who even cares about normal I don't care
I just like this this is normal this
guy's cycling around six
years why not but he seems like he's had
a pretty good Adventure I want to bit of
that in Africa specifically Kenya I've
been there certain parts of Kenya can
really teach you that you don't need
much that's a primal exactly I think if
was just a different way of
looking that's what the I it is the
classic traveling like oh go travel and
find yourself blah blah blah but it do
you know sometimes meeting these people
from doing the craziest stuff and from
different cultures will just make you
look at things in a different way you
know even I found that coming back to
London now and it's like all of you I'm
I'm back into the motor like oh you need
to go and get a flat and you need to go
and live somewhere and blah blah blah
and I'm like hold on a minute like I
don't I need why do I need to do any of
this you know you you
must realize Upon returning to the UK
how much people are kind of programmed
yeah yeah and I just I guess the
uh the age Ling one was the first time I
was just like let's give it a go what's
the worst going to happen and at the end
of that run your father joins you
um yeah so my I
remember my dad
my dad came up to London and saw me it
was he said that he was proud of me and
I remember that hitting cuz like he
didn't say it often but when he says it
you know it's Pro I can imagine your dad
being similar like kind of thing
where you know he means it when he says
it and I think that's like one of the
most powerful things a dad can say to
their son like proud of you son even
makes me emotional just saying it like
thinking about it I'm like
wow um
yeah that was nice and he he ran the
last day with you he ran like the last
5K I think we had yeah the last 5K and I
was actually joined for the last couple
days by the mate that got me into
running in the first place which is
really cool as
well
interestingly there was no followers no
there was no YouTube views there was no
headlines there was no BBC articles
there was nothing yeah most people don't
even know it happened yeah frankly cuz
you went on your own you didn't do all
the Social Media stuff you then get back
to the UK to much different Fanfare than
you got back to this time you go back to
your parents house mhm couple of days in
everyone's looking around going
yeah what's that like couple of days
in yeah I mean I remember my body being
pretty in a pretty bad way after that I
couldn't even walk like I was really
struggling body was really hurting and
uh uh Got Back
into the country I was skinn because i'
done all my D on this age line and run
and then my dad was like I remember
weekend like what are you doing you lazy
like get a job or something so I was
like oh [__] all right and then went and
got up how did you feel when you heard
that I it was hard at the time I just I
was I was I was really struggling cuz
I'd just been away for a whole you know
for about a year or something done this
big thing finally finished
finished and then I was like oh that's
reality slapping me in the face again
but yeah you pissed off yeah I was yeah
when he told you to get a job yeah I was
humaning yeah why because I was I was
just mentally just absolutely done in
and physically done in and then he'd
like just been like oh I'm so proud of
you I remember being like I'm so proud
of you you've achieved more in your life
already than I ever have blah blah blah
like and it really felt like a made a
bit of a breakthrough there what do you
mean breakthrough just like I felt like
he respected me more like he'd actually
seen that i' I was capable of doing
something um that he thought was good
you hadn't felt that
before not in that way not in that
way what did you think that he thought
of you growing up when you sort of 19
years old and you're gambling and doing
uh like probably just disappointed
um yeah disappointed bit of a
loser you've eventually end up burying
yourself alive which is [__] bizarre
that's a ton of events I didn't I didn't
see coming in your story so you do this
run at 22 years old um there's sort of a
two-year gap between then and when you
bury yourself alive what are you doing
for those two
years
so I was just working bits and pieces
here and there really um back to
normality pretty much like I I finished
the ages learning
run and in in my head from then I was
like I would really love to make this
kind of thing a career somehow don't
know how I'm going to do it but I would
love to be able to do that and
then that kind of started like a three
or four year process of working out okay
you know if we make content then maybe
Brands will sponsor that and then I can
go do adventures with that money but
that it took a long time to kind of put
those pieces of the puzzle together like
that was never the really what I was
thinking of when I did Istanbul to
London I've choed a few photos up on
Instagram just really for my boys to see
be like I'm out here in Serbia camping
or
whatever um but yeah then you know did
the o line run figured out if we make
some content and that's how we're going
to do it buried myself alive pulled the
car for a
marathon then the Africa planning
started happening you buried yourself
alive you asked your parents if you
could bury yourself in the garden they
told you [__]
off yeah yeah got I remember that now
yeah you buried yourself alive for seven
days in underground you basically just
dug a hole in a tin can and jumped in
the tin can and then they they buried
you there um and then eventually the
plans as you say you pulled the car as
well which is crazy do you know when I I
actually found out all this stuff which
was shocked me was I don't know a week
or so into your run in
Africa I saw you pop up on my feed and
then as you know I clicked on your
profile and then I clicked on the DM box
and you sent me a DM yeah and the DM you
sent me was in May the 5th I think it
was 2022 so it was a long time ago more
than two years ago now and paraphrasing
because I know speculative
one I bet you get these kind of DMs all
the time yeah I I missed it I didn't see
it so I didn't I didn't I didn't see it
at all but um it's funny it's funny cuz
I actually replied to you exactly one
year to the day when you sent me a
message I replied to you on May the 5th
as well but you emailed me on May the
5th 2022 and in that message you said
some nice things and then you said
you'll probably get a lot of these DMS
but let me explain why this one is
special and
exciting oh listen this is your sales
background there coming through I'm I've
removed some parts cuz yeah bad no no no
no no you know I'm an endurance athlete
in 2019 I was I was the first person to
run from Asia to London in 2020 I pulled
a car for a marathon in record time in
2021 I got buried alive with nothing but
water and I live streamed it for an
entire week and in
2022 I'm starting a mission to become
the first person to ever run the full
length of Africa you sent me that DM two
years ago um hoping that I could assist
you in some way with the the Africa leg
of that and when I saw that the most
shocking part was that you had done all
of these other things and I'd never ever
heard about any of them yeah yeah and
then in that message you explained to me
cuz it was a very like long message and
you really it was a really thorough
message you explained that this time
would be different people would actually
know because you'd figured out content
yeah yeah yeah and You' got some good
people around you and you'd spent almost
two to three years thinking about this
Africa run before you even you set off
going yeah why Africa why was that the
plan well I knew that Africa hadn't been
done before and it's one of the few
things left that hadn't been done so
that was probably one of the big reasons
also like Africa's not very tra like not
very well traveled not many people
tourists not many tourists go there and
I thought it would be like the best
adventure
ever so that's why I decided to do it so
you were going to run from the bottom of
Africa to the top yeah how long did you
think it was going to take two I thought
it would take 240 days that was my goal
I was going to do 360 marathin 140 days
didn't quite work out how long did it
take in total in the end took 352
days long
time but there's lots of hurdles along
the way before you set off I think it's
was four to five months before you set
off maybe six months you meet a young
lady called Emily Bell ah yeah yeah um
wow what girl what a woman was it six
months before or something no I I I met
her we first met at one of our mutual
friends birthday party yeah and I said
to my friend like why have you never
introduced me to her she's beautiful and
then um then that started like a three
month process of me trying to convince
her to go on a
date luck it took a while we got there
eventually got there eventually um
actually we had a secret Santa going and
I think one of my friends did me a solid
and kind of like rigged the Secret Santa
so I got got her oh nice and then I got
her uh tickets to go to Comedia comedy
club in Brighton got her two tickets I
was like well you could like you could
take
me and then um yes so then that's that's
when first started da about this Africa
thing was already in work so it was
quite complicated but then before I left
we were like right let do it and we kind
of like we spoke on the phone every
day and
m i i was one of these people if you'd
asked me two years ago could that have
ever worked like 14 months away we spent
from each other I'd be like nah that's
never going to never going to work but I
think we we spoke pretty much every day
for hours whilst I was running if I had
signal and the the the kind of stuff
that we got to speak about and really go
through in depth
on is the kind of stuff that I think in
a lot of relationships would just
get swept away in the rig morale of the
day-to-day life so I'm actually super
grateful for that time and like really
proud of her and asked for like
navigating that kind of weird situation
knowing your childhood and knowing the
early model of relationships that you
experienced with this mother and this
father didn't seem like they always had
the best time little bit distant the
affection wasn't there when you go into
a relationship there must be a part of
your sub conscious that still has that
model of relationships front of mind so
you must be in some respects like I am
to be fair or at least like I was until
I was about 27 28 when I had my first
relationship I had my first relationship
at your age um an avoidant oh yeah yeah
cuz you hadn't learned you didn't have
the tools to be affectionate and to be
open totally still am a bit but but when
you met her
yeah you hadn't done had those deep
conversations
N I think it's her credit to her more
than me she she kind of bring that out I
I I didn't have the tools to
go to do any of that stuff to be honest
you know she's just I think sometimes
like I don't know I think I just think
we fit really well like together what I
can do well she can't what she can do
well I can't like it
works it's so interesting because
we got to have a conversation with Emily
yeah and the way she described
you sounded very very much like
me it's no it's funny because um I've
actually listened I remember messaging
you actually about it I think I listened
to you had a podcast with some
relationship person Esther Pell I
remember and um yeah like the way you
were talking about I was like oh this is
like this is hitting over here and we
both we do that a lot sometimes we
listen to podcast and talk about it and
like do this I'll do this I'm going to
play this oh God this is going to be
awkward for you but
listen
it's it's word for word
me he's not the easiest to support and
hasn't been the whole time I've known
him because he doesn't accept support
very like he's he's got so much better
at it but I'm a very like nurturing like
I want to help
um I want to make his life easier what
can I do how can I support you but for
him support looks like um
space that's that's textbook me yeah
support is leave me alone it's my love
language it's just acts of service and
leave me
alone that's really what it's about here
we're talking about you have different
Love Languages and she goes on to
explain that
um this is much because of the way that
like your early early years you were
used to Independence yeah um God she's
smart let me just he's changed so much
since I first met him like when I first
met him I was not thinking oh I could
actually seriously date
you yeah no I remember those days you've
um you've changed MH you've
changed how have you
changed I think I've definitely become
more willing to accept some I do still
strug with that but I've definitely
tried to do that more it's all I think
for me it
was like I really cared about Emily so I
really wanted to be the best that I
could for her as well
and I just think like the level of
desire to to make that happen was like
really high so I've just I think
before I wasn't very willing to
compromise on a lot of stuff I was like
I'm doing my thing you either fit in or
you don't see later whatever whereas
with Emily it reminds me of me with
Emily I was like oh like she's
special I really want to make this work
and I'm I'm going to have to there it's
actually a benefit to me if I can
compromise because she that kind of
having that connection will also bring a
lot to my life and I need and I need to
I need
it she kind of got over the fence she
got over the wall of the castle and
managed to invade and change you from
inside yeah yeah yeah but you didn't
want to let anyone over the [__] no
no is that how it's been for you as well
then 100% yeah I met I met a person who
I cared about so much yeah this what
exactly what you said that I was finally
willing to compromise on things before
then it was like as you say my way or
the highway like don't get in the way of
my dreams you're either on the bus or
you're off it but not like I'm willing
to go in a different direction in some
areas of my life here and it's I think
that's good news for a lot of people
that are avoidance because it offers us
all hope that you know we we'll meet
someone and they'll be worth it um and
they'll help to rewire some of the
evidence we have from our earliest years
about what relationships are and aren't
and the freedom they make us compromise
and all of those things she sounds like
a really wonderful person she is man
she's great she's the best I love her to
bits they always say you strengthen a
relationship by going through something
difficult together and that's exactly
what happened as you ran the length of
Africa the really remarkable thing was I
was reading about your preparation for
this trip and to say the least Russ you
were ill
prepared you you landed in South Africa
with 10K which is 4% of the money that
you would need to make it the whole way
I mean there's so many other things here
you you knew that you couldn't get
through I think it was Angola Algeria
Algeria you knew you couldn't get
through Algeria because they don't issue
visas if you're not in the country they
denied our Visa already yeah and they
don't issue visas when you're not in the
country we' already left so so you [__]
I'll figure it out when we get there
pretty
much what is that mentality because
there's so many people that need
everything figured out and all the
answers and to feel that psychological
feeling of I'm ready you don't seem to
give a [__] frankly I don't think I was
afforded the luxury of being able to you
know wait really we were running out of
money it
was it was now and ever I you know make
it work with what you've got or don't
doy basically and I was like I think we
can do it where did this 10K come from
well we actually got 50k to start with
from an investor MH that he was a mate
of a mate i' managed to persuade to give
us some money to get things going what
was in it for him he he's got a
percentage of like everything we make
off the back end so he's he's done all
right he was a risky risk risky one
that's hell of a yeah risky one for sure
I think he it was more like a he just
wanted to see it happen you know he was
fellow woring boy
year younger than me made bunch of money
in crypto and yeah so he fronted the
first bit of money to get us going and
50k was more than enough to get us going
but what ended up happening is the the
mission got delayed more and more we had
some people involved at the start that
kind
of long story they kind of said that
these things were going to happen blah
blah blah Brands were going to happen
all of this stuff they were trying to
make happen none of it ended up coming
to frish did they take money
they didn't take any money now they um
but we ended up burning through a lot of
the money before we were supposed to be
on startline with like 50k and we ended
up months rolled by we wasted money on
XYZ ideas didn't come so we basically it
got to a point where I kind of got rid
of all these people start line 10 grand
I was like if we don't get funding
within you know if we don't get any kind
of SP want [__] within the first month
we this is game over cuz we've run out
of money said to all my team going to
have to delay your wages Etc just really
tightened up and then I got a message
from some some bloke from dragons then
like two weeks
in Jes yeah no so mate I mean I don't
know this is another thing that people
probably don't know that you're like
such a massive part of the story like
you know when when you messaged I I
remember being in South Africa I think
it was about 10 days 2 weeks in or
something like this got a message from
you that was like oh like just see what
you're doing something like this love it
like if you need any help let me know
and I was
like you should have see I rang Emily up
I was like you're never going to believe
who just messaged me like it was crazy
you know obviously y got sorted out
perfect head got sorted out two
unbelievable sponsors
and kind of changed the whole mission
man like I can't even put into words how
great
that you messaged me that like it was
that was like you know sometimes when
you have like a moment where you're like
wow like that's like that you were that
moment for me really
yeah yeah but you did that I no I you
did no but like no you did I'll tell you
why you did that because two things the
first thing is you had messaged me a
year earlier and I just had totally
missed it but the second thing is you
went and did some so you planted a seed
there then you went and did something so
awesome that the world brought it to my
attention and when the world brought it
to my attention I looked at what you
were
doing um I think you were two week
roughly two weeks in and I just thought
it was awesome I thought you were a cool
guy and I could play out how this
Mission goes in my head and I thought
this is really [__] cool I I I'm an
investor in I'm a part owner in various
companies um and there was two companies
that I I'm very close to perfect Ted and
hu who I felt were just perfect because
no pun intended because perfect ter like
an energy drink company that I met on
Dragon's
Den you need energy and they're all
about positive energy and um the
founders are very much like you and then
obviously hu on the nutrition side of
things I thought they were perfect for
you as well and I messaged both of them
and they were both down instantly I just
sent whatsapps I said there's this guy
he's running the length of Africa he's
so cool he's really he's like going to
do it and both Brands were like down in
one message I messaged both the founders
on WhatsApp and they were like we're in
so and you had done that you had because
you had messaged me most people I say
this because sometimes people can see
things like pivotal moments in their
Journey as Lu but I think it's important
to highlight that you plan to a seed a
year earlier when you literally sent me
like three pages in a de yeah I I guess
I'll describe it like I was knocking on
the door but I needed someone to open it
you opened it so like it's a kind of a
jewel thing there I think you planted a
lot of seeds yeah and I was on a few
doors yeah yeah yeah yeah and I'm sure
there's lots of messages you sent that
would never replied to yeah so I'm
really glad that I saw it I'm really
glad but I saw it because you were doing
something awesome and it just popped up
in my feed one day and I went down a
rabbit hole and I was like this is
[__] cool this guy is cool it'd be
dope to be you know to do anything we
can to see him see this through so that
that gives you a little nudge forward
those two incredible Brands um you get
going on the mission you run into a
bunch of health issues I mean it went
around the internet for a while I think
at this time you've got I don't know you
didn't have many followers at the time
20 30 40,000 followers yeah it kind of
grew it grew a lot quite quickly um
early doors but we started I started the
mission with I think 20K on Insta 6K on
12 t on YouTube and you start pissing
blood by like day 30 is there a part of
you at day 30 when you're you're running
through Africa and you're pissing blood
and you go I ain't gonna be able to do
this nah I knew it was bad you're
running out of money yeah couple weeks
before then you start pissing blood for
most people either one of those things
would be okay
let's get let's get a flight well I just
I knew that you know it was a bad
situation but it would it would probably
end
eventually and then carry on going you
get robbed in South Africa which is the
first sort of minor robbery incident
thieves approach you they try and take
your stuff think you give them a lift
home yeah that was two two guys came up
to me whilst I was running at night one
one came in front of me one came behind
me and I kind of instantly knew this was
a bit
shaky and I um I just went a bit mad
just
like weighed up the situation just
started acting a bit crazy started like
beating my chest and shouting and stuff
to try and like put them off cuz I could
I got the feeling like okay they're
going to this is an attempt but they
haven't gone straight in with the
robbery they're kind of feeling it out
so I was like trying to give them enough
of a reason to think I'm crazy enough
it's just not worth it kind of worked
sorry you started beating your chest
yeah yeah yeah I started beating my
chest I started shouting I was they cuz
they just joined I was mid-run and they
join me running like one in front one
behind they were running it like they I
think they it was a situation where they
were trying to fill me out you know like
should we rob this guy this kind of yeah
and I just thought if I can put him off
enough so can you describe to me what
you I literally beat in my chest yeah
was just like we're running by like just
going totally a
bit just to make them think like oh this
guy's a bit you know he's a bit off it
maybe we'll just get the next
one did you learn that somewhere or was
that like a plan you had no that was
just purely like I you R differently to
different situations like we've been
robbed at gunpoint where there's a gun
in my face and I'm not going to start
beating my chest cuz I don't want a
bullet in my head but then there's other
times where you think like you kind kind
of looking at them going he's actually a
bit nervous to rob me so if I can put
him off enough then he's just not going
to bother which was that that situation
so what happens then you start beating
your chest acting like a Lun start
beating my chest acting like a lunatic
the one the run the guy running behind
me ended up dropping off so then it was
just a guy in front of me he was he was
quite a small guy anyway and I was like
I don't reckon he's about it and then um
did you tell him you're the hardest keys
and then we ended up speaking a little
bit and he was like oh like my friend
was going to rob you but we're not he
but he's gone we're not going to rob you
and I was like oh your friend was going
to rob you was yeah like nice um and
then you know I actually ended up
speaking to him and he was just saying
like he's just he needs some money to
like feed his family and stuff he was
living in a Township next next to the
road which was like pretty bad
conditions and I was like look mate my
boy's going to come pick me up in a
couple minutes like we'll give you some
food and he's like all right sweet you
fed the robber yeah so then the boys
came and then we ended up giving them a
lift
back yeah what a nice story
yeah it's going to be a movie one day
that this whole thing's going to be a
movie you get to um Angola and then you
get robbed at gunpoint yeah robed the
gunpoint L go that was um day 50 yeah I
mean they were a bit more successful
that time they got a lot of our
stuff what happened so ran 30k I was on
a lunch break we sat in the van
me Jared Harry my sport team and we were
just chat and [__] like usual two three
guys pull up on a Mot bike two of them
get off come up the side of the van
crack the door open gun in all of our
faces started speaking
portes um then they took a bunch of
stuff yeah that was a nightmare to be
honest they got passports money cameras
drone phones
was long have you processed this stuff I
don't know I don't think so man like the
the the thing is is that these things
happen just you're on the road again the
next day
so you know because you say it such a
casual sort of Blas way but if someone
had a gun pointed at
them most people would would be in
therapy trying to resolve the sort of
complex set ofy IC implications that
causes and when I asked you the question
I could see your demeanor changes a
little bit because it it's not as Blas
as you you sometimes make out is it I
don't know man I guess it just is what
it is I haven't really I don't know if
I've deeped it that much at this point
you know we're over it nothing bad
happened in the end I mean we got robbed
but no one died you lost the cash you
had the equipment and and your passports
which is probably the most annoying
thing of all those things yeah that that
cost us like at least two or 3 weeks in
terms of going to re get visas and
things day 50 you get to day 100 and
you're day 102 when I say day 102 does
it bring back any memories a couple
couple um Congo Congo DRC yeah that was
one hell of an experience that you
described this as probably the hardest
part of the whole trip probably the
hardest part of my whole life
really you've not talked about this much
in detail either for some reason so we
made a YouTube series online which kind
of followed the whole thing it's the
only YouTube video that I didn't
release because it was
quite I mean it was
quite it's a difficult one at the time
as
well because it was the hardest time for
us as a team and we we there was a lot
of
arguments a lot of fallouts around that
and I didn't think that the video that
we made was really what
told the story how I wanted it to be
told what
happened
so yeah you're emotional about this yeah
I mean
it yeah that whole thing was was mad the
so we got to
DRC I think day 100 we got to DRC it was
hostile from the
start um we' we'd been warned loads
about it about the country it's one of
the poorest countries in the world it's
quite known for
corruption and we we've been sent the
videos of the craziest things happening
there and I think we're all a bit
apprehensive you've been sent what kind
of
videos the crazy like people getting
shot chopped up all kinds of
stuff
um yeah it was it it definit I mean I
don't know much I can really I what I
would say about DLC is that we spent a
few days there and my experience was
very subjective it's to it's a massive
country loads of people loads of great
people but my personal experience of the
small amount of time I spent there was
was a bit
rough but yeah we I mean we landed in
the country crossed the border it was a
very chaotic Border Town we had people
from the GetGo very not not very happy
to see us at all shouting at me whil I
was running trying to like exploit us
for money
officials all this kind of stuff get
trying to get money out of us and we'd
heard about all of this from people
traveling so we kind of half knew what
we were rolling into but it was it
really created
a kind of atmosphere that
was difficult
challenging
um yeah I mean the day before day 102 we
had a guy come up to guy came up to me
with a rock spikes in the Rock and he
was like I'm going to like smash your
head in with this when he speaking
French so I don't really get it but
Harry spoke French so he's basically
threatening us with this big spiky rock
that he had in his hand saying like give
me three quid the equivalent of three
quid or I'm going to like start smashing
you all
up and uh so we I gave I think gave him
a quidd in the end I'm not getting my
head smashed in over three quid ball so
I didn't want to like get word around
that there was a bunch of people just
throwing money around to anyone that
would threaten them
so yeah I
mean woke up day 102 I was running 100K
that day and I felt very anxious from
the get-go
really like really finding it difficult
already
ran left my left the boys in the morning
like I normally do ran 20K then ran
another
20K start we took a turn off onto a dirt
road to the boys are plan this route
took took went down this dirt
road then the van basically the support
van couldn't get to me so the boys sent
a guy on a
motorbike and so I'm running along this
dirt parking this guy on a motorbike
keeps trying to stop me and I was so
like scatty already that I was I didn't
want to stop for he was trying to get me
to stop and I was like nah I'd had it
the day before people trying to stop me
on motorbikes and it was all a bit
didn't didn't feel great like I was I
was quite anxious about the whole thing
anyway eventually I did stop he gave me
a note that basically said like the boys
can't get round to where we were going
to meet but they're going to go to this
other place and meet there and um it was
about 20K Through the
Jungle no roads like barely even a path
I was just kind of like whacking my way
through bushes to get to this meeting
point where I was going to try and find
the boys run out of water
phone has got no
signal and I'm going through these these
bushes stumble into this Village and cuz
I think because of the experience that I
already had in the first couple days of
DLC I was very much like I just want to
get my head down and get through these
places as quickly as possible with less
fuss as possible so I'm running through
this Village and like people shout at me
and stuff and I'm like hey this is
happening all the time now like just car
on going car on going but I think I
upset quite a lot of the village by
doing that and then the chief of the
village comes over and then you know
before you know I'm like surrounded by
half the village they're all like very
upset they don't get what I'm they don't
get who I am what I'm doing why I'm
there and they start trying to like say
that I need to give them money I didn't
have anything on
me so then like the chief of the village
kind of got some people away and he got
two blos took me out into the bush with
machetes and I was bricking
it yeah I was absolutely bricking it um
thinking like every all every my mind's
totally racing at this point I'm like
what like what is going on here why why
am I going out to the bush like this
doesn't make any
sense like is this a Shakedown like what
is the worst happening don't know and
then got out into the bush I basically
emptied on my bags had some biscuits
gave them the biscuits and then just DED
and then I was just like right line for
this meeting spot
and mine's totally frazzled at this
point I've got I'm hearing motorbikes
coming I'm hearing people I'm jumping in
bushes like totally just out kind of off
it here
um kind of get through this jungle bit
get to this meeting spot the boys aren't
there now I'm really like H this is bad
cuz I'm about 50 something K in I'm
dehydrated I got no water I got no
signal and I don't know where the boys
are I don't know how where how to get to
them and I'm in the middle of the Jungle
and I know that there's like I've I've
set a lot of people in the local area
and I've just run away from them all I'm
like ah like this is bad this is bad
news anyway I figured out that the
tarmac the last nine bit of tarmac
was I think about 15 or 20K away and I
was like I reckon I can just about make
it there and if I make it there then
that that makes sense that the boys that
that's the last bit they could get to so
had you just sprinted away from the guys
with the machetes pretty much yeah yeah
like it was I they they walked me out
into the bush and I didn't really I
didn't know what was happening but I was
just so
like like this is bad gave him biscuits
and just died and then like I've I've
ran off and I can just hear loads of
like going on and I'm just running
through this
jungle it's it's all
quiet it's yeah I mean it's all quite
mad I'm like adrenaline going through
the
roof um I was like
yeah were you scared yeah I was
petrified man I was absolutely petrified
I I think what didn't help is
that I didn't understand any of the
language like local like lingala the
local language I didn't know any french
either which would have helped
um and I didn't understand I didn't have
a very good understanding of the culture
or anything so I think if I went through
it again a lot of these things would
have been rationalized in my mind easier
but because I was so unaware of the
situation and i' had all of these horror
stories built up in my head and the
first couple of days in DLC was quite
rough and I was just like in this spot
where it didn't take much for me to kind
of just assume the worst of everything
so it really just got me into a place
where I was like quite scatty
um but yeah I mean I find I find this I
go see the bit of time I'm not right
let's head there it's about you know two
hours away I could probably make it
there and as I'm going there I'm going
down this dirt path another two blocks
on a motorbike P
up and you know I'm I I was like this I
just don't want any part of this they're
trying to stop me you
know I'm mine's totally gone
and they they were trying to I think
they were trying to communicate to me
like oh we're going to take you to your
friends blah blah blah and I'm I'm
thinking about I'm like are these guys
who are these guys sent from they sent
from this Village or that Village is
there like a bush Telegraph of there's a
white guy running around here he's upset
like go and get him kind of thing so I'm
like nah not doing it blah blah blah
thinking you know the boys they send a
note with the driver if it's from if if
it's from them and this guy these guys
had no note and I was
like it was you know getting later and
later I was like I've got no water I've
got no signal I've got no way of knowing
where the boys
are they're probably no further than 10
or 20K away so if I'm if I get on this
bike and I'm on the bike for longer than
half an hour or an hour then I know it's
bad
news so I just thought [__] it get on
the bike how long were those two men on
the bike following you and asking you to
get on the bike a while
like probably we probably about 20
minutes
um so yeah got on the bike half an hour
went by then now went by I start like
kicking off I'm getting off the bike I'm
having a g them but like the language
barriers just no one understand a word
anyone's saying and then yeah ended up
spending 7 hours on that M like going
into the jungle which was like terrible
seven hours seven hours yeah what goes
through your mind in those seven hours I
thought well I assumed after about an
hour and a half I was like okay well I
am getting kidnapped then like we're
this is it you know and then I was
thinking
rationally I was like had such limited
knowledge about DRC or any of this kind
of stuff I was like they're probably
just going to they probably just want
money but then you so St think well
maybe they're just going to kill you
and the stories that I'd heard about DC
and that wasn't the craziest thing you
know you like people get stabbed for
FIV literally like a couple of quid
people get stabbed um people get killed
for the you know a
watch so I was really trying to like I
was really trying to be rational about
the
situation but just just like very quite
quite emotional as well and then I mean
at for the last few hours I was just
like you know what God has for me has he
has for me you know whatever it is it is
and that's fine and I was just trying to
be like you know it's out of my
hands um but it was very scary I was
like
so nervous like just shaking they took
me to this Village in the jungle
late at night no electricity it's like
wooden little Shacks with tin corrugated
roofs and stuff and got me off the bike
took me into this little Hut then loads
of the men of the village came into the
Hut they all arguing about money and
this kind of stuff and then the second
Chief of the village walks in and says
to me like you speak to me in English
very slowly and he he understood a few
words and I said to him like this is big
mistake
you know like call my friend and he
speaks French and like and and then he
can come and like we've got money and we
can sort it out and then they spoke on
the
phone and then basically we agreed like
the boys would come we got the
money and then it took the boys like I
think about 36 48 hours to get there
because it was so rural there was no
roads going there it was all dirt paths
they tried to rent some motorbikes got
scammed then they then they ended up
trying to borrow the police a police
Chiefs
4x4 who also scammed
us so B yeah so then I mean the boys got
there
eventually we gave everyone some money
and then I was free to
go I was just looking as you're talking
about how fast 7 hours is and for people
in the UK 7 hours is London to Edinburgh
yeah it's not in DLC so if I go from
London to Edinburgh on a car yeah that's
7 hours just to give people an idea of
like how long that is on the back of a
motorbike with strange men going through
the middle of we're literally going
through the jungle so it's like little
tiny paths that are going up and down
through Rivers through over Mountains
for seven hours seven hours yeah I was
like gripping on the I was absolutely
done in by the end of it and you got to
that Village they wanted they wanted
money mm
did they explain anything did they say
anything to you about who they were and
I think I think they
were I think they were actually just
they were more scared about who I was
and why I was there and all the rest of
it and
the I mean after the after the phone
call with the team things seemed quite
settled like the they they were pretty
all right with me and they I think they
you
know it was I was I was just in a state
of like
totally totally whacked what you mean
just exhausted but like petrified and I
was just very nervous around everything
Twitchy you
know yeah have you suffered with
anxiety I don't know I think I I don't
think so but like I do obviously I'm
human I do know why anxiety feels like
and I do get it some times but I was I
was anxious then for
sure you you're speaking to Emily back
home your partner throughout um The
Journey on most days but for this period
of time sounds like you were out of
communication with her and she seems
like she was very very worried about you
she was yeah in fact she told she told
us on a research call that she thought
you had died
yeah I mean I thought I was going to die
as well did you actually yeah
genuinely thought you were going to die
yeah and how did you how do you sort of
rationalize that thought how do you deal
with that thought when
you what comes to mind like what are you
thinking when if you if you really
believe you know I think I'm going to
die here like I mean it's I guess it's
different for me I was just
like you know if this is the way that
God wants it then I guess it is that's
it you know and there's more for me
elsewhere that's how I was what that's
how I was trying to make sense in my
brain were you thinking about people
back
home yeah I I mean I was thinking about
I think about like H all the things
that I wish I had the chance to repair
that I haven't like relationship with my
parents um was thinking about all the
things
that you know I wanted to do with my
life that I wouldn't be able to do I was
thinking about what it would do
to you know everyone
that got myself killed in Congo for just
trying to run the length of
Africa I felt stupid cuz I was like you
know this
was these were like mistakes that have
been made that were like quite should
have been quite easily preventable that
we didn't do and you know that's openly
my responsibility as well
so it was yeah it was a hard few hours
thinking about things that you should
have repaired with your parents it's
interesting in moments like that people
always talk about how they have a a
retrospective like Clarity on their
life and their
priorities that most of us will never
understand because we've never been in a
situation where we've genuinely believed
there was a chance that we weren't going
to make it
out when you say you were thinking about
how you should have repaired
relationships with your parents what do
you
mean I don't know I guess it it's like
you said it was a Moment of clarity
where I was
like
I've probably wasted a lot of years
there holding on to things that weren't
necessary you know for [__]
reasons
and like life Doo short for
that what' you been holding on to
like resentment and pride
and you know not not trying to
understand or like avoiding things and
not trying to connect with people that
that love me and these kind of
things you think these are your last
hours you've obviously got a person
there in your life who has loved you and
has shown you a different way to connect
and to be and to into intimacy and all
all of those things which is Emily are
you thinking about Emily in those
moments as
well yeah I
was yeah I mean I was thinking
of like all the all the things that we
talked about like our future together
and everything that we wanted to
build and
like the like having kids together and
all these things that just felt like
they were
just and how like just felt like I was
letting her
down and you know I
wasn't like delivering the things that I
I was going to run the length AF we're
going to do this going everything's
going to be all right like don't worry
about you know all these danger no it's
going to be fine babe
and
uh yeah I
knew how
much how hard that was that time was for
her as
well guess I mean especially I'm in the
thick of it you know I'm in the thick of
it she's like at home just think about
it all the
time there was a few moments like that
when we didn't have signal and things
your boys eventually find you mhm they
pay off the uh the guys in that Village
and they let you go
mhm doesn't really stop there though
does it because there's so much now to
process and to figure out and kind of
that was I think the hardest point for
us as a team of the mission was like the
aftermath of that it's very
difficult because I think we were all
struggling everyone was right their
limit
and probably because that no one had any
spare energy to think of anyone else in
that situation it was all like well I'm
struggling so that's it you know
and yeah I mean there's a good few
arguments people don't really know about
this moment no because people like me
that just watch from YouTube and from
social media we just think oh they're
they're all getting on it's all fine oh
he's pissing blood again ha funny but
when I when I did those research calls
and spoke to members of your team and
spoke to you know people around you and
even members of the team that were out
there with you this was really
a a falling out amongst amongst the team
that no one in the public ever got to
see it's difficult one to talk about cuz
I don't want to throw anyone under the
bus or paint anyone in a bad like bad
like we were all timately just trying
our best I think for
me what I recognized that I did wrong in
that situation was I set us up in a bad
way like I'd hired so heavily on content
side because I knew that you know we
started with no money we had to get
content out there to get Brands to
sponsor us that I basically recruited
three people that were almost entirely
there for Content reasons being able to
make YouTube videos take photos record
documentary this kind of thing I
completely
blindsided the logistics element and
like having knowledge of Africa and
all of this kind of stuff I just thought
that's a luxury we can't afford right
now because of that i' ended up asking a
support team that were mostly there for
content to basically be like Logistics
African Logistics
experts and that's put them in a
position it's obviously going to be
really
difficult
so yeah I mean that the whole
situation could have could have been
ided with different different plan and I
recognized that and I thought off the
back of that I was like right I'm going
to get a 4x4 because the van can't
travel up any of these dirt roads and
I'm going to hire two new people one of
which is going to be like a proper
Logistics guy that's going to get us
through all these tough
situations a team member actually
departed around this time as well yeah
that that was a difficult one
um we actually we had a big argument me
and Harry had a big argument on just
after this Congo thing we were traveling
back through these Villages he'd
obviously had a rough time as well
trying he'd been scammed for motorbikes
had this this dealings with the police
chief and as we were coming back he was
buying like [__] and and alcohol and
stuff in all these little tiny Rite
Villages and I I had an issue with it
because we're going through some of the
poorest places in the world there's kids
running around with like M Irish bellies
can't even feed themselves and you know
as Europeans if we bow through these
Villages drinking and smoking blah blah
blah then it's giving off the sign we
got a lot of money to spare and that's
why we're getting scammed so much for
extortionate amount of money so I had an
issue with it and I told him and I
probably didn't say it in a way that
was how good leadership would say it you
know so we had a big argument about that
I've obviously just been in this rural
Village for a couple days I'm already
I'm I'm tightly strong already so is he
and then we get back to the other the
other boys these guys had no idea what
just happened and they were all
struggling themselves so they were very
much everyone was just concentrating
themselves and they were all kind of
like everyone was a bit pissed off of
each other and then we had a
meeting and I just blew up just blew up
start shouting everyone throwing chairs
about completely lost my call it's not
not obviously not the way to act
um
and yeah I mean it was it was awkward
was awkward few days off after that I
was I just went straight back to running
wanted to get out of DRC as quickly as
possible it was everyone was in
eggshells we got to cabinda which is in
angolan
exclave and then I said to I was like
how are you're going on
holiday and I said to the other boys
you'll all be going on holiday at some
point I think at that point I'd
realized that for me I'm running every
day my body's very stressed I'm very
stressed in general I'm managing a lot
of things and I can't have the people
around me also being at the edge of what
they can do because then it just leaves
me in a totally [__]
spot so I tried to kind of put some
reorganize reshuffle things so that
wouldn't happen by sending everyone
holiday hide Gus hire Jamie another
Editor to take some workload off down
the gizy was working like 18 hours a day
trying to get two YouTube videos out a
week whil recording it and producing it
I was like right we need to change
something there Gus X power from Dutch
military he cycled up and down Africa by
himself absolute Beast of a bloke like
he's coming in he's going to do our
Logistics and one of the best recruits
I've ever made so um that's kind of how
the aftermath happened I'm going to let
you in on a little secret what is in the
Diary of a SE Cup this cup that sits in
front of me when I interview these
people sometimes for 3 hours and
sometimes three people a day and the
answer is this perfect de I invested in
the company on Dragon's Den and since
then they've gone from an idea to the
fastest growing energy drink in the UK
it is a mat energy drink and it is
absolutely delicious but that's not why
I choose to drink it on this podcast the
reason I choose to drink it is because
it gives me what I call all day energy I
don't get the same crashes that I used
to get with other energy drinks if in
the middle of a conversation or you're
in the middle of a talk on stage or in
the boardroom the last thing you want to
do is have a crash you don't want
Jitters and you need focus and that is
why they now sponsor this podcast not
only is it delicious but it gives me a
significant competitive Advantage if you
haven't tried it go down to a Tesco go
to a waitrose or go online and use the
code diary 10 at checkout and you'll get
10% off and when you do try it let me
know how you get on as you continue on
you have all of these issues you have a
bunch more health issues your your back
starts to give out I think around uh
around two day 205 and 206 you
completely stopped because you had back
issues back the back was probably the
worst injury I don't it's not even
healed still but basically my back
started season up and I would get like
shooting nerve pains coming down my
leg and it would just totally like
totally jar I wouldn't be able to move
or yeah I mean God knows what happened
there
I mean there's a chance that you've done
permanent damage to your back probably
yeah I mean I ran the marathon on Sunday
and it was still going a bit so did you
have to stop no but it's basically been
on and
off on and off very painful for the last
kind of well whenever that was day 205
since then Emily said around that time
that sort of 200 day Mark you were like
you were pretty
done what does she mean by that when she
say pretty done
I was in a lot of pain like every day
so I really just wanted it to be over at
that point and I still had like five
months to go still have five months to
go
yeah yeah was there I I've heard you
answer this question before but what
what day was the closest to
quitting the closest where you thought
you know what maybe the thought the only
the only time I ever really had the
thought was in the Congo really on the
on the motorbike yeah like that was the
only time I actually ever actually
thought like why am I doing this this is
stupid you know like I'm going to get
myself killed of this and it was a
fleeting thought came in and then I
thought I ain't got a [__] choice I
got to do it now anyway December time
which is day 241 you're you're in um I
think the Ivory Coast MH and uh the
Ivory Coast think you're a
spy so they took you to the local police
station because they thought you were a
spy yeah they were very
confused did they tell you that they
thought you were a spy or did you just
kind of piece that together yeah it was
more piece than that together like they
were very confused about her was while I
was there while I was running in the
middle of the night um and yeah they
they made sure they did all their checks
on me that so that I
wasn't any suspect individual January
comes around the New Year how did you
celebrate Christmas out there and that
and all that stuff we it was Back to
Basics kind of Christmas we had um
chickens on the
fire had got a bit pissed miss the
family Yeah Christmas would have been a
bit of a weird one for my family anyway
but yeah like
um I mean it was business as usual I was
I think it was pretty much focused on
the job and had a couple drinks and that
was that one uh a day shortly after that
um that really I think things took a bit
of a turn in terms of publicity was when
you reached Alger and you had the issues
with your Visa because Algeria
um as we said is a country that doesn't
Grant visas unless you're in your home
country currently and so you were
advised by the FCO not to travel there
um I believe I can't remember a lot of
people advis us not to travel travel
there and the Algerian authorities were
saying absolutely no to you to get to
you getting a Visa um so you decided to
start an online campaign to try and like
it's such a it's such an interesting
thing
because very few people would have a
country say we're not going to give you
a Visa you cannot come into our country
and you decide that the way to overcome
that is with some tweets yeah it was
bold strategy it was we were we were
strategizing for a couple weeks before
that like right this you know we are
backs against the wall here what are we
going to do and we kind of you know Gus
and Stan had were putting together these
kind of plans to get residency in
morania and then potentially you know do
all of these little things to try and
somehow get a visa and
um just got to a point where I said like
boys let's just hell marry it just get
the just let's just blast it on socials
because it's going to take someone right
at the top to to say
yes you know swing for
defenses and that's what happened um you
launched this kind of online campaign
LED predominantly by Twitter to get
someone in Algeria someone high up or a
politician in the UK to speak to Algeria
yeah the campaign goes pretty viral
everyone's posting it in the UK so much
so that even Elon Musk tweeted at one
point which is mad basically saying that
this is what this platform's for what he
loves about the platform that's sick and
then Algeria tweet you basically saying
we'll give you a visa on the spot which
is mad isn't that mad actually mad when
you think about where you came from yeah
you've got Elon Musk tweeting and the
like algeria's Twitter account tweeting
out you going come on in we're gonna
we're going to change our laws yeah so
that you can come through here and Elon
musk's tweeting that it's just mad it
was mad it
was absolutely crazy and then you get
through you get your visa you're able to
enter Algeria the um Sahara Desert was
another big challenge for you you get to
day 313 the truck breaks down in the
Sahara Desert 250 kilomet away from the
nearest road what I found so interesting
about this little chapter in the story
was that when we spoke to Stan who was
part of your team on the research
call he says that you weren't really
concerned because everyone just assumed
everything would be fine we'd been
through much worse um Stan said that the
resilience they had built up was
accumulative and gradually they became
less and less concerned about SE
setbacks and I read that and it was
really inspiring to me because it says
something about life we all have these
like subjective setbacks that we can
like fall into a dark hole thinking like
the end and it could just be like Jenny
at work sat in our seat yeah yeah yeah
whereas you're in the Sahara Desert and
your truck is broken down 250 km from
the nearest Road the repair team can't
fix it and you guys just shrug it'll be
fine barely even thought about it mate
can't lie really yeah I
remember just thinking Ah that's a minor
we'll figure that out because you had so
much evidence that you guys had been
able to figure out so many other things
yeah yeah and I think like by the end as
well like the team was so it was slick
like the way everyone was operating we
everyone knew what they had to do no one
needed you know no one needed telling we
all just got on with our jobs and the
amount of output for four
people was
crazy that really is what resilience is
people always ask like how do you become
more resilient but it seems your story
taught me that it's like go through some
difficult [__] together and come out the
other end and you'll have evidence yeah
and even if you you know go through some
difficult [__] and it doesn't work out
then you've got few lessons in there
right so at least you survived right
yeah that's a lesson um and then you get
to the final leg of the trip and all of
the people around you tell me that there
was a noticeable increase in your sort
of happiness and demeanor when you could
start to see the Finish Line definitely
in your mind you get what two weeks out
in the social Med media interest goes
pretty [__] crazy yeah it did yeah
yeah even like mainstream media kind of
picked up I think the last few days last
few days yeah the whole of the UK only
had one thing to talk about really yeah
I'm sure it was you know very much the
case in other parts of the world I saw
news reports in America and and other
parts of the world but it felt like back
here in the UK the UK was just talking
about one thing really it was following
you you know there surely you your
girlfriend and stuff Master have told
you it was [__] pandemonium it every
social you know I'd go on social media
and anyone that I I knew was was posting
about you um running that last leg
driving money to those Charities that
mean a whole lot to you um as you come
into that last leg that last day crowds
of PE like hundreds of people flew out
there it's niut absolutely nice and
they're running with you a lot of them I
was heard from some of your team I think
Stan that was saying to me a lot of
people flew out there but they were
Keeling over and like collapsing on the
side of the road cuz I don't think they
anticipated that this isn't London mate
it was fny like um Tunisia at that time
wasn't even that hot coming from the UK
everyone's just absolutely cooked
and and you um you come into that that
last
day and your dad is there as well yeah
yeah it was emotional day man I met my
dad came and ran like he could only bang
a two or three k these days but he came
ran and um like put his arm around me
and that and you know it was special
your relationship with him started to
pick up mhm um as you got closer to the
Finish Line it seems yeah I've heard
that from a few people yeah uh
throughout throughout the whole mission
really I think
but Emily's definitely a big part of
helping that what was it like to see him
and where did you see him was it on the
last day on the last day
um yeah we ran a little bit couple
tear just like what were the tears
for I don't know like I guess it was
like a signal that it was like this is
actually over now you know like my Dad's
here
um and like you know everything
everything that I've been through but
also like everything he'd been through
everything his dad's been through felt
like it just felt like a moment you
know he was proud of you very very proud
of
you very very proud of you we got to
speak to him on the phone
and hearing how proud of you he was was
one of the most moving things I actually
of this whole experience of speaking to
your friends and family hearing just how
proud your father is of you was it it
moved me when I heard it I actually
um I couldn't believe it's my son you
know um crossing the line and and um
and it was sort of like not real sort of
thing you know it's like you know but
it's took a while s still sinking in now
really and he went on to say I couldn't
be more proud of my
son yeah it's nice it's powerful when
your dad says that is it
always
always you cross the
line how does that
feel ah yeah I mean that Finish Line
honestly felt like a [__] mystical
thing that was never coming for the
longest amount of time
so the fact that it finally came was
just like wow it's finally over you know
like we actually did
it
so yeah very grateful it's quite complex
emotions I can see it in your face yeah
what are those emotions I guess it's
just like grateful that it all worked
out you
know and like all the hard work paid off
and all the hard times paid
off your girlfriend said that you um you
walked over to the edge of the water you
reached the northernmost point of Africa
and you're
saluted and to her that salute meant
more than just a sort of random token
gesture it was a salute in many respects
to say you
know there's certain chapters closed in
my life now and there's certain things
that I've I've proved
I think maybe the right word there is
proven yeah I think so hopefully what
have you
proven I guess
um I'm capable you know I can do
it your mom was there as
well the whole game the whole
team was that the best feeling of the
whole journey that that end moment with
your family was cuz I heard you describe
that the start was amazing the first day
M and in that moment I imagine it's
overwhelming for so many reasons it's so
much the process overwhelming people are
there and screaming and the cameras and
the Sky News are running alongside you
it's like it looked B [__] crazy I was
watching Christ it was totally mad I
think the Finish Line was one of them
things that was just so over like I
don't know if you had it like when
there's so much going on and it's so
overwhelming you kind of
like you it almost feels like an out of
Body Experience mhm and you're someone
that's like lived most of their life in
relative isolation yeah you like being
alone yeah Emily told me this she
because I think he's happiest when he's
when no one's
there yeah I do like being alone I do
like it interesting still is like you
get back to the
UK and you've been running this crazy
you've done this crazy thing
for more than a year right it was 3 352
days I was out there for 14 months 14
months get back to the UK your land the
weather's different obviously society's
completely different yeah now everybody
knows who you are here so wherever you
go someone's got oh hardest G guy ever a
[__] picture lad
like how how is that um still think I'm
kind of working that out at the moment
don't really know it's it's definitely
different but everyone's so nice and I
think like the
like the stories of people that they
come up to me and they're like you know
I was running the marathon on Sunday and
people are like you're the reason I'm
here and stuff and I'm like that's kind
of mad but that's sick as well you know
so are you feeling overwhelmed yeah
definitely how' you
know because I'm I'm trying to distance
myself from everyone and everything at
the moment really
yeah like yeah
just I think
um my social batteries run out quite
quick and once that happens I'm just
like well I need to be alone like
immediately done can't speak done and
you're getting all these emails now yeah
yeah yeah and it's just like well I
think there's a lot of things happening
as well that I'm not that I don't know
how to handle properly like emails and
all these other things you don't have
management you don't have anyone an
agent nothing I kind of need a moment to
work out what I actually want to do I
think
but it's fine like I'm not running Ultra
marar desert anymore I can't like it's
it's all right you you were running that
Marathon you ran the London Marathon
like like two days ago or something yeah
that's a very public place to be yeah I
didn't quite
anticipate anticipate
that I had some people that saw you down
there and they were a little bit
concerned really yeah cuz you looked a
little bit overwhelmed yeah it was a
little bit there was just a lot of
people grabbing at you and stuff yeah
yeah I
mean people were nice so like they would
they only had nice things to say to me
it was just like so much like
stimulation you know what I mean like
just I was like I'm not used to this
it's I find it fascinating so you're at
the very top of this mountain in terms
of like publicity and attention and
everyone's screaming and grabbing at you
and wants you for stuff you've just done
this incredible adrenaline inducing feet
running the length of Africa there's all
of these chemicals your body the
adrenaline the endorphins all that stuff
that comes from Endurance Sports and
then done
done zero like stop yeah how's
that um my body needed it yeah it's
absolutely you know bashed
in but it is
also it was it's it's been quite
difficult to I had the like such a solid
routine every day for a year was like
get up run break eat run do the same you
know every single day and now the
schedule's like wildly different it's
like okay wake up interview here or go
and do this and then this and you know
meet this person chat to that
person and uh I'm kind of missing that
that routine of exercising all the time
kind of want to start that back up again
pretty soon maybe maybe not 60 or 70k a
day but like I need I actually need that
you know so
how's your mental
health I
think I think it's fine I just need to
get like I just need to get a few things
sorted like I haven't got a place to
live yet or I don't really I don't know
the immediate next steps like
career-wise what I'm going to
do and a lot of things have changed
obviously so it's just working out a lot
of all of this
stuff but I think when there's that many
UNC in your life it's always going to
create a certain level of
like mental challenges so I just need to
figure them out and then I'll be all
right you know you must get bored of
people asking you what's next because
it's so this is what everyone asks when
everyone does when anyone does anything
interesting they like what's next they
want to know yeah yeah the next
challenge or I have got a lot of ideas I
think like one of the big things I would
be really what I really love to do
is in some way be part of like
documenting other people's Journeys when
they go on you know they're starting
from somewhere and they they've got this
big thing that they want to do and just
like either helping them or being like
in some way do it MH uh so I'd really
love to try and do more of
that the last year as well like one of
the things I struggled with is
it like it was so much everything was
geared towards basically helping me run
and
I've had enough of that you know all of
my support team were there basically to
facilitate me running as far as I can
every day and it would be nice to do
things for other people more than just
everyone doing things for
me that's an interesting thought you've
had enough of that enough of it being
about you yeah it's interesting R
because you're someone that quite
clearly through your story wants likes
being alone and like lowkey under the
radar do their own thing spend time in
my own head M and then exactly that
doing exactly that in in you running the
length of Africa being alone out there
in the Sahara Desert alone has built
this massive [__] audience yeah and
all these people watching you that are
now like very much compromising in some
respect obviously there's so much
privilege and stuff that comes with it
but they're compromising the very thing
that you loved the most which is you
running from London to Asia alone Asia
to London Alone um on your own with the
hammock it's never quite going to be the
same if you know what I'm saying you
can't even walk down the street in
London you're like a really distinctive
not recognizable guy as well cuz Ginger
beard and
stuff well I think it will
like it will die down like eventually so
I think it's going to be all right it's
just different yeah it's just yeah it's
just different just different new set of
problems I guess yeah to manage and
stuff yeah you did all of this you know
to have the experience you inspired all
these people along the way and obviously
Central to this was the running charity
they do incredible work for people kind
of like yourself that are in that
situation where you're looking for
guidance yeah you're looking for a sense
of purpose and meaning etc etc um how
much how much what was the goal
fundraising goal yeah what's your
fundraising goal a million a million
yeah and what are you on at the moment
when I checked yesterday I think it was
970 I'm not exactly sure what it is now
you've been down to see the work that
this charity do haven't you I've worked
with the charity for
like years you know I used to before I
left I was the adventure guy so I take
people take groups of people up climbing
mountains or out into nature and we do
stuff I did stuff with fundraisers who
were raising money for the
charity I mean I I did the AG L Run for
the running charity as well so I've been
involved for for four or five years well
I have to say Russ you um you inspired
millions of people you don't know this
but like when I'm in the gym yeah and I
start thinking about quitting the whole
time when you're in Africa I was like
[__] Russ is running three marathons
today like what the hell am I doing
thinking about quck and I it it was this
thought in the back of my head that
helped me over and over again when I was
in difficult moments when I'm in the gym
when I'm thinking about quitting when
I'm thinking about not even doing the
workout and I'm like that guy's going to
be up today running another 20 well 60k
or 100K yeah so it was it was even like
this motivational Force for me in my
life and I'm really really appreciative
of that but I also know because I've
seen the messages and I've seen the
dmss that for many people out there that
are Russ at 19 that don't know the path
forward that don't have guidance that
don't have something to aim at you've
given them a blueprint for how to turn
your life around and there's you've
given 19-year-old Russ all the
19-year-old Russ is out there a
blueprint for how to turn your life
around and you've given them evidence
that it's possible and people in that
situation as you are they don't always
believe in it's possible you described
the hopelessness and the helplessness of
that situation that's exactly what
you've done and also you've raised a
[__] ton of money now your goal was to
raise a million pounds which is a
ridiculous amount of money
um so before we sat down I made a few
phone
calls you know I'm an investor in a few
companies and I'm on the board of a few
companies so I called Julian Hearn at hu
and I said listen wouldn't it be
great if uh hu could get behind this and
and make sure he hit that Target
now there you go wow they've donated the
remainder of the cash to you for your
fundraising so you've hit the million
pounds and we wanted to say a huge well
done and congratulations on behalf of
all of us here D so much man
is em Emily here there she is coming
in oh sweet thank you so much man man
thank
you absolutely incredible and I know the
the team at perfect head here they've
could you Chuck me this um daqui thing
on here this one here again I'm an
investor in this company and uh we we
have a partnership together they also
energy produced the hardest energy which
is a limited edition strawberry daquiri
flavored perfect Ted which will be on
sale and I think the proceeds much of
the proceeds of this will be donated
towards this campaign as well um it begs
the question why strawberry daquiri for
some people that don't know why straw
daer I don't even know like it just
ended up becoming a thing that I was
saying towards throughout the mission
I'd be like get me to Tunisian beach for
a strawberry derer and it was in my head
and then we finally got it done eh and
they're here as well so we'll we'll
include up the link to buy this in the
description below so anyone that wants
to celebrate your incredible achievement
with us will be able to do so we do have
a a last tradition on this podcast it's
not not usually how they end but um
where the last guest leaves a question
for the next guest not knowing who
they're going to be leaving it for S is
a good
one H there's two questions
interestingly I'm going to ask you both
questions cuz they're both applicable
okay so first question is if there was a
movie about your life which I'm sure
there will be who would you want to play
you Ron
Weezy
really okay in question number two what
place do you feel the most comfortable
in and why one of the things I just love
doing the most is mid run going to Tesco
getting some snacks and just sitting
outside Tesco on the pav and eating my
snacks my favorite place ever love doing
that very relatable as always for us
thank you so much honestly everything I
said then about the inspiration You'
given me is completely true and I I I
know that there's so many people out
there that feel the same way and you've
made me want to aim higher in in some of
the things that I do in my life and
pursue bigger challenges and really push
myself to the limits because as you've
proven in your life all of the good
things are on the other side of some
form of discomfort the purpose the
meaning the connection is you proven and
like so many people at the moment in
society are suffering with their mental
health with a s a lack of sort of a
sense of meaninglessness and you're this
like this shining example for all of us
this North Star of this first step we
have to take to go on that incredible
journey so thank you so much Russ mate
thanks for everything you've done I
can't honestly I can't thank you enough
you made it happen as well so amazing
[Music]
oh